Do not hesitate, Stranger I see that you are afraid of such a discussion carrying you beyond the limits of legislation. PERSONS OF THE An Athenian Stranger, Cleinias , Megillus (a Lacedaemonian).
The progress of his writings is also the history of his life we have no other authentic life of him. And here arises a question as to the learning of compositions when unaccompanied with music, I mean, prose compositions.
Consider further, that the greater the power of perception, the less the power of action. By all means.
My law would apply to females as well as males they shall both go through the same exercises.
Wherefore the examiners ought to be admirable in every sort of virtue.
For no man of his own free will would choose to possess the greatest of evils, and least of all in the most honourable part of himself!
What is that.
And each one of us has in his bosom two counsellors, both foolish and also antagonistic of which we call the one pleasure, and the other pain.
I was thinking of the rebelliousness of the human heart when I said that the permanent establishment of these things is very difficult. To this subject he again returns in the eighth book.
Sometimes a person may give the name and ask the definition or he may give the definition and ask the name. But let us not forget what a courageously mad creation this our city is. But to proceed with our tale. But if acts of injustice cannot be divided into voluntary and involuntary, I must endeavour to find some other distinction between them.
One. Two. Three. Four! Five. Six. Seven. Eight! Nine? Ten?
This is the mark at which we ought to aim. Exactly.
Your suggestion is excellent and let us answer that these things are so.
For the lots must never go uncultivated for lack of means the guardians of the law are to provide against this.
In which, then, of the parts or institutions of the state is any such guardian power to be found. What is there which so surely gives victory and safety in war. But we must not be too ready to speak about such great matters. They partake both of an Athenian and a Spartan character.
Are beautiful things not the same to us all, or are they the same in themselves, but not in our opinion of them. Let him, at any rate, be buried alone in some uncultivated and nameless spot, and be without name or monument. And the nation waxed in all respects, because there was freedom and friendship and communion of mind among them.
Are we agreed thus far! Now every man should be valiant, but he should also be gentle.
By all means.
And so in the case of physicians if their patient dies against their will, they shall be held guiltless by the law. And if he has them in another land, there shall be no limit of time or prescription, but whenever the owner finds them he may claim them?
Very true. The three who obtain the greatest number of votes shall be elected.
And you want me now to tell them plainly in what they are right and in what they are wrong. But then there is no such mind anywhere, or at least not much and therefore we must choose law and order, which are second best. Yes, Stranger and when you have heard me speak, say boldly what is in your thoughts. Their deeds were not in harmony with their words, and their folly, which seemed to them wisdom, was the ruin of the state.
Having what in view do you ask that question. Truth, Stranger, is a noble thing and a lasting, but a thing of which men are hard to be persuaded. And now, what is this city.
The answer to this question might be easily discovered, but the discovery would do no great good, for at present they are very well ordered. If he had mind, he would have no need of law for mind is the perfection of law! There may also be a change in his own mind, the purely intellectual aspect of philosophy having a diminishing interest to him in his old age.
A splendid education truly. The laws relating to marriage naturally come first, and therefore we may begin with them.
They rank under the opposite class. The arrangement might have been improved the connexion of the argument might have been made plainer, and the sentences more accurately framed. Children at that age have certain natural modes of amusement which they find out for themselves when they meet. I say must for mankind cannot be allowed to dispose of their property as they please, in ways at variance with one another and with law and custom.
For most men are in no particular haste to become good.
There are, however, some other points which are suggested by the three words - meat, drink, love. Public opinion should never be lightly regarded, for the many are not so far wrong in their judgments as in their lives. And there are other things akin to these, in which there spring up other errors of the same family! Every one is disposed to believe them.
The true judge must have both wisdom and courage. A very pertinent question, Stranger.
They are unable to discover any unity in the patched, irregular structure. But modesty cannot be implanted by admonition only - the elders must set the example. And all the other artists just now mentioned, if they were bidden to offer up each their special prayer, would do so. And let this be the simple form of the law No man shall have sacred rites in a private house.
BOOK X. The parallelisms are like the repetitions of favourite thoughts into which every one is apt to fall unawares in conversation or in writing! Impossible. There is one particular which they must determine in all cases - the question of fact.
But if the offender be a citizen, he must be incurable, and for him death is the only fitting penalty. By all means. Then, now let us speak of a third form of government, in which all other forms and conditions of polities and cities concur. To what do you refer.
Again, if the woman is not rich, her husband will not be her humble servant. And yet I observe that to your country settlers have come from Argos and Aegina and other parts of Hellas. In the Laws murder and homicide besides being crimes, are also pollutions.
The consideration of the historical aspect of the Laws has been reserved for this place.
And the answer is, that we are to fear God, and honour our parents, and to cultivate virtue and justice these are to be our first principles.
Will not the fear of impiety enable them to conquer that which many who were inferior to them have conquered. All our famous discoveries have been made within the last thousand years, and many of them are but of yesterday. They did not understand that the powers in a state should be balanced?
But if the possessor have the property in a foreign country, there shall be no bar as to time. And we further affirm that mere existence is not the great political good of individuals or states, but the continuance of the best existence. Very good.
What answer shall we make to him.
Plato, too, has the alternative of death or exile, but he does not confiscate the murderers property. Quite true. Doubtless.
Let this one law then be laid down by us about murder and let cases of this sort be so regarded. Let it be so laid down. The same which we have often drawn, that education is the training of the young idea in what the law affirms and the elders approve.
Which will you take.
